[Music]
[Applause]
body acne can be a pain in the neck
literally these pesky little bumps can
appear everywhere on your shoulders neck
back chest and buttocks nowhere is safe
if acne is the bane of your existence
you know it's uncomfortable painful and
upsetting most advice out there focuses
on face acne but the body needs a break
from the breakouts to keep watching to
learn how you can easily smooth out your
skin and finally get some relief and
don't forget to click on the subscribe
button and turn on notifications to join
us on the bright side of life
number seven find the right body wash
acne might make you feel like you can't
go outside without covering up your
entire body you might be the person
wearing a long sleeve shirt and pants on
a sweltering summer day but not anymore
getting rid of acne starts here the
experience of the scented foamy body
wash might make you feel like you're on
vacation at a beach resort but if it
contains ingredients that are clogging
up your pores it's best to purchase a
new one and go on a real beach vacation
the perfect body wash will contain
salicylic acid sella see what you say if
you don't know about salicylic acid it's
time to get acquainted salicylic acid is
a beta hydroxy acid that exfoliates the
skin and unclogs oily pores and dead
skin look for a body wash that also
contains glycolic acid which is an alpha
hydroxy acid or aah a it exfoliates and
reduces the appearance of acne marks the
final ingredient to look for is lactic
acid which is also an aah a that helps
minimize breakouts put these acids in
your corner there's nothing to stop you
from winning the fight with acne number
6 get the proper body moisturizer
most people put a lot more attention
into the ingredients that are in the
face creams they use then in the lotions
they put on their body if you're using a
gentle oil-free lotion for your face but
using a lotion packed with oil for your
back chest and shoulders where you just
so happen to be breaking out there's the
problem thankfully getting acne doesn't
mean you can't use lotion it just means
you have to find the right one find a
lotion that is oil-free and look for the
word non-comedogenic
this means that the lotion won't clog
your pores if your skin is naturally
sensitive look for the hypoallergenic
label on the product there are a lot of
dermatologist approved body creams for
acne so a quick trip to the grocery
store or pharmacy will have you set up
with a perfect body lotion number five
stay clean throughout the day you know
that sweat and dirt is a dangerous
combination for acne prone skin cleaning
your body all day with showers and wipes
might get tiring but the upside is that
you'll feel fresh all day long and keep
acne at bay yeah back off acne that
means that if you exercise you should
hop into the shower as soon as you're
finished if you head out for a walk
during your lunch break and break out in
a sweat no matter how thin that layer of
sweat might be it's important that you
wipe it off as soon as possible to
quickly clean your body when you're not
at home carry wipes that are non oily or
oil balancing and hypoallergenic if they
have acne fighting ingredients like
lactic acid then all the better
number four use a scrub in the shower
but wait a moment because it's
SuperDuper important that you're
extremely gentle if you have a physical
exfoliant scrub they have a grainy
texture to them versus chemical
exfoliants which can be smooth like
lotion scrubs are designed to exfoliate
the skin and remove dead skin cells and
they can help improve smaller pimples on
the surface just be mindful that
scrubbing alone won't cure acne
scrubbing should be the cherry on top
the final detail that makes you
triumphant over acne not the only
treatment if you have a grainy scrub be
very gentle with your skin scrubbing to
roughly can over dry the skin causing it
to produce more oil if you are too
vigorous you can leave scars if you have
a chemical exfoliant the scrub you you
should have acne fighting ingredients
like the ones you should have in your
body wash aah a s like glycolic acid and
lactic acid and salicylic acid number 3
don't forget sunscreen alpha hydroxy
acids cause your skin to become more
sensitive to the Sun thereby increasing
the possibility of sunburn if you're
following the recommendations to include
aah a products in your skincare routine
sunscreen is a must you might think that
acne and sunscreen don't go well
together but the trick is finding the
right sunscreen it should be non greasy
non comedogenic and lightweight so that
it doesn't exacerbate acne and protects
your skin from harmful UV rays if you've
been using an aah a body wash all over
your body and you're about to head out
you'll need to put sunscreen on every
area that will be exposed to the Sun go
for a sunscreen that's SPF 30 or higher
sunscreen stops having any effect after
a few hours so save your skin from sun
damage by applying at least twice a day
number two use a topical treatment if
keeping your body clean exfoliated and
moisturized isn't giving you the results
you hoped for it might be a good time to
try an over-the-counter acne treatment
benzol peroxide creams are a good option
since they kill the bacteria that cause
breakouts
however retinoids are the top treatment
for acne retinoids are derived from
vitamin A and they are the best
treatment for blackheads and whiteheads
basically when you apply a retinoid it
will produce new skin cells that will
push the oil and dead skin out of your
blocked pores so it nips the problem
right in the bud if the acne is on your
back
it might be hard to reach that area to
apply the treatment you can enlist the
help of a family member or you can
purchase a lotion applicator for your
back and do it yourself
number one clean up your diet to beat
acne you have to tackle it from the
inside out if you want clear skin you
might have to step back from
cheeseburgers pizza and fatty foods no
matter how tasty they are multiple
studies have shown that diet and acne
have a very strong link there are
definitely foods that can make your acne
more pronounced the good news is that
there are foods that can help it - a
2016 study published online in the
advances of Dermatology and allerg
allergy Journal showed some of the foods
to avoid foods that are high in the
glycemic index with a high glycemic load
should be avoided like the plague of
course those can be the tastiest ones
like processed foods fast food and
snacks like potato chips and cookies
dairy products are also an acne don't so
it's best to find alternatives to milk
try almond and soy milk which are
fortified with calcium now you won't
miss out on your minerals do scarf down
on fish fish and healthy fats can help
your acne because they are
anti-inflammatory when your skin is
inflamed your pores get more clogged and
your pimples look more red and swollen
fighting that inflammation is important
too
foods that are high in antioxidants can
calm down the free radicals that make
your Skinner rack foods high in
antioxidants will usually be brightly
colored fruits and vegetables like kale
spinach berries and carrots the best
approach to fighting body acne will
involve trying multiple things at once
so following all these tips will give
you the best chance of getting smooth
skin if you tried all these tips and see
no results after a few weeks it might be
time to visit a dermatologist since they
will be able to prescribe oral
medication that has a stronger effect so
tell us bright ciders what has been your
biggest challenge with acne let us know
in the comments section don't forget to
give this video a like share it with
your friends and click subscribe to stay
on the bright side
you